



Network Working Group                                        H. Birkholz
Internet-Draft                                          Franhaufer Inst.
Intended status: Informational                            7 October 2025
Expires: 10 April 2026


          Remote Attestation for Trustworthy Workload Identity
                   draft-novak-twi-attestation-latest

Abstract

   Trusworthy Workloads are workloads that operate in an environment
   that provide isolation of data in use.  This document describes how
   Trustworthy workloads can acquire credentials containing stable
   identifiers, upon providing the trust in the environments in which
   they operate via means of Remote Attestation.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://confidential-computing.github.io/twi-rats/draft-novak-twi-
   attestation.html.  Status information for this document may be found
   at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-novak-twi-attestation/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/confidential-computing/twi-rats.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 10 April 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Security Considerations
   4.  IANA Considerations
   5.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   As organisations move more workloads into untrusted or shared
   environments, Confidential Computing is becoming increasingly
   important.  In such a system, an application or workload (which could
   be an AI model, database process or financial service) is executed
   inside a TEE-protected virtual machine (VM).  Worklaods operating in
   such environments need stable and trustworthy identifiers to
   communicate to external world over network.  Often such identifiers
   are provided to them via Credential issuers upon ascertaining trust
   in the environments in which these workloads operate.  The standard
   practice to establish required trust in the operating environment is
   via the means of Remote Attestation.

   This draft specifies how a Workload operating in Confidential
   Computing Environment can obtain credentials using Remote Attestation
   to establish the its trustworthiness.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Security Considerations

   TODO Security

4.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

5.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Author's Address

   Henk Birkholz
   Franhaufer Inst.
   Email: Henk.Birkholz@ietf.contact
